veg cheese toast sandwich recipe

prep time 30 mins
cook time 10 mins
total time 40 mins

veg cheese toast sandwich - bombay style vegetable cheese toast sandwich

recipe type: snacks, breakfast
cuisine: indian, mumbai street food
serves: 3 to 4
ingredients (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
for the green mint coriander chutney:
¾ cup coriander leaves/dhania patta
¾ cup mint leaves/pudina patta
½ inch ginger/adrak, chopped
1 or 2 green chili/hari mirch, chopped
½ tsp chaat masala (optional)
black salt or regular salt or rock salt as required
little water to grind the chutney
few drops of lemon juice
for the toast sandwiches:
8 to 10 slices of brown or white bread
1 medium size tomato, thinly sliced
1 medium size onion, thinly sliced
1 small cucumber, peeled thinly sliced
1 small capsicum/green bell pepper, thinly sliced
1 boiled beetroot, thinly sliced (optional)
1 boiled potato, thinly sliced
½ to ⅔ cup grated cheddar cheese or regular cheese, add cheese as required
butter at room temperature to apply on the breads
chaat masala or sandwich masala to sprinkle on the veggies
black salt to sprinkle on the veggies
how to make the recipe:
prepare the chutney first. blend all the ingredients mentioned under the list 'for green mint coriander chutney' in a grinder or small blender. add very little water. the chutney has to be of thick or slightly thick consistency.
keep the chutney aside.
steam or boil the potatoes and beetroot.
peel and slice them thinly,
rinse and peel the onions and cucumber. slice them thinly into round slices.
rinse and remove the seeds from the capsicum. slice it thinly. also slice the tomatoes thinly. keep the sliced veggies aside. grate the cheese and keep aside.
preparing the toast sandwiches:
slice the edges of the bread if you prefer. spread butter evenly on all the slices. make sure the butter covers the entire of bread. a generous coating of butter does not allow the bread to become soggy, when you apply the chutney.
spread the mint-coriander chutney on all the bread slices.
place the onion, tomato, potato and capsicum slices. sprinkle a pinch of chaat masala or sandwich masala evenly on them. also sprinkle a pinch of black salt evenly.
now top with grated cheese.
cover the sandwiches with the remaining bread slices and place in a preheated toaster or grill.
toast for 2 to 3 minutes till the bread gets toasted well and golden. toast the remaining sandwiches in the same way.
spread some butter on top of the hot sandwiches and serve cheese toast sandwich hot with the remaining chutney and tomato sauce.